In order to push an image to the Google Container Registry,
the tag must follow a certain format.
Hostname determines which Google Container Registry
location you want to use for your repository.
You can find the list of the different geographic hosts in the documentation.
Project-id will associate this image with a
particular Google Cloud Platform project.
Image-name and tag are whatever you want them to be for your image.
For example, docker build -t, gcr.io /demo-project-123/demo: 1.0 space dot,
indicating that the Docker file to build is in the current directory.
You can also use the docker tag command on an existing
image following the same format.
For example, docker tag, image id, hostname,
slash, project id, slash, image name, colon,
tag.
Before you run a Docker push for the first time,
you will need to run gcloud auth configure-docker to set up a cred helper.
Then simply push the image.
For example, docker push gcr.io /, project id, /demo: 1.0.
I don't have any Docker images built,
so I'm going to build one using the demo docker file and tag it with the
correct format so we can push it to the Google Cloud Registry.
Now we can see the image that's been built.
I'll run it just to double check that everything's good,
and when I hit it from a browser, I can see that it's up and running.
Now we can run gcloud auth configure-docker.
This will allow us to push the image to the registry in our account.
I'll run the docker push, and it was successful.
We'll use a gcloud command to create the Kubernetes cluster and
specify how many nodes we want to have in that cluster.
I'm going to start with three nodes.
The command is gcloud container clusters create,
cluster name, --num-nodes= desired number of nodes; in this case,
3.
Next we'll use kubectl to create a deployment named demo-app.
Using the image we pushed earlier, identified by the full name that we pushed,
for example, kubectl create deployment, deployment name,
--image=, then the image that we pushed to the repository.
Once the app is running,
we'll need a load balancer service to map the ports and
allow us to hit the app externally.
This is also accomplished with kubectl.
Kubectl expose deployment, deployment name,
--type=LoadBalancer --port 5000, --target-port 5000.
In this case the app is running on port 5000 so we just keep that mapping.
Now we're ready to create the demo cluster.
I'll start it out with three nodes.
Once the cluster is created,
we can run kubectl get nodes and see the three nodes that are ready.
We haven't created a deployment yet so there are no pods.
Let's create a deployment using the image that we just pushed to the registry.
We can see that the pod is starting up, we'll give it a minute,
and now it's running.
Next, we want to be able to see it so we'll create a load balancer.
Run kubectl get service to get the external IP.
Now you can hit that IP from a browser at port 5000 and see the application running.